A Brief History...
chapter lxxx
Page 2.

go up there to see my dying friend due to "germs Get real Deputy Denxedr
on. You don't want us up there because we will report the abuse you daily
v15): upon these men. You are now PROVE" to be an "executloner" (see
attached document) and we all thought they outlawed the death penalty in
Massachusetts???

LC. Whlrlwlnd 15 still ' alklng the toughest bear. 1n the state" (Le.
clothesline patrol, water bottle task force, ID wearing squad, etc.} up
at the minimum security facility or Shirleyworld "light". we recently
learned that part of the reason she was banlshed from the confines of
Shirleyworld was that she had an inappropriate relationship with a
married civilian worker here. Now I am not going to reveal his name or
position as he is not a cop (for the most part) and has a family that
could be hurt, out i will say that Lt. urine (formally whirlwind) has
absolutely no morals and adultery is far from a shocker where she is
concerned. We all see daily (well not for the past few weeks) her hatred.
I'm not an educated man out so years on the planet have taught me a few
things. Anyone who is that angry is not angry at external things: they are
angry at self. They hate themselves but cannot allow themselves to cognate
that, it is too painful to grasp, so they employ the defense mechanism of
displacement. Theit anger is displaced on those they force themselves to
View as less than. This can lead to suicide and murder. The internal
stockpile of hatred, anger and dispair has to hurst out someday. My hopes
are that Lt. urine does not harm anyone here. We will pray that she seeks
help and we will pray that she does prey on any other men who are week in
matters of the flesh. have you ever known a pretty girl that turned you
off because she was a fully reprehensible human being? Lt. urine is not
pretty but I cannot see how her bile mind did not scare off this man who
must have been thinking with the wrong head. Please keep the men up at
shirleyWorld Light in your prayers as there can he no doubt that Lt. Urine
will do all she can to make their lives miserable until she can return to
us here and have her revenge. This is today's corrections.

 

 

The DOC plans to start using the "drug sniffing dogs" on visitors this
week. Are they going to have the dogs sniffing the guards as well? The
propaganda pulleting they put out says that drugs come in by "visitors and
mail". Well I gues they missed the cops who brought in an ounce of heroin
at MCI Norfolk (he is doing 70 years for it) of the cop who brought in
suboxone, creatine, anabolic steroids, and take out food at a price for
a couple years. How about the one here they fired last year for bringing
in T—shirts for guys in exchange for suboxone. He actually snorted in
cells with prisoners and then ran around the block high as a kite: No
dogs sniffed him. How about the medical staff who steal pain pills out
of prisoner subscriptions and give them to their boyfriend guards? will
they be shifted? Again the Do: is treating a "symptom" rather than
treating the problem. Men seek to get high as there are no meaningful
actvities for them here at the prison: no college courses, no job tralnlnw
no family reunification events, NO HOPE! Men choose to numb themselves so

(2D