\(uukl LllkUL) LCelLH Uh.'\LJULlli\f l

A good example of queer theory's ambivalence about itself is lasbir K. l’uar‘s inlluential :ttltl,‘ lttmk [error/tr
AssembIages. Puar does battle truth a succession of polemical opponents: queer liberalism, queer neolrher .ilistr‘r.
queer exceptionalism, etc. lfall ofone's identities "must be constantly troubled," she points out, one imagines "an
impossible transcendent subject who is always already conscious of the normativizing l'orees ol‘ power and always
ready and able to subvert, resist. or transgress them." That seems undeniable as far as it goes, but it also restates one
of the generative problems in Butler's early work. So while Puat' seetns to want to associate queer theory with a
liberal imperial imagination. she does so in terms that she takes from queer theory itsell‘. Despite its criticisms of
(some) queer theory, then, Puar's book is itselfan example of the kind of vital work that queer theory enables, with

or without the rubric. TerroristAssemblages would very likely sit on any queer- theory syllabus today.

Queer theory in this broader sense now has so many branches, and has developed in so many disciplines, that it
resists synthesis. The differences have often enough become bitter, sometimes occasioning the kind of queerer~
than-thou competitiveness that is the telltale sign of scarcity in resources and recognition. ’I‘hat impulse can be
seen, for example, in the title of a special issue of Social Text called "What's Queer About Queer Studies N ow?" And
given queer theory's strong suspicion of any politics of purity, it is ironic that queer theorists can often strike
postures of righteous purity in denouncing one another. The Gay Shame Conference at the University of Michigan
atAnn Arbor in 2003, for instance—t0 discuss aspects of lesbian and gay male sexuality, history, and culture that

“gay pride" had suppressed—featured a remarkable amount of mutual shaming, as though everyone had missed
the point.

The scarcity of resources that feeds such a dynamic has a lot to do with university structure. At many colleges, queer
theory is now institutionalized as a minor subﬁeld of LGBT studies. Some projects, such as queer ethnography,
ﬂourish in this structure better than others. The broader provocation to the disciplines has been nearly
compartmentalized, with the consequence that many of queer theory's greatest challenges—for example, in the
analysis of normativity, which should have become central to philosophy and the social sciences, but has been
scrupulously ignored by them, or the connections between sexuality and secularism that are central to so many

kinds of conﬂict around the world—remain undeveloped. Thus to my mind, the widespread impression that queer
theory is a thing of the past, that we are now at some point “After Sex," seems tragically mistaken.

At its best, queer theory has always also been something else—something that will be left our of any purely
intellectual history of the movement. Like "I want a dyke for president," it has created a kind of social space. Queer
people of various kinds, both inside and outside academe, continue to ﬁnd their way to it, and ﬁnd each other

through it. In varying degrees. thev share in it as a counteroublic. In this far-tnn-limimd mnp it haq hnpn nneeihln m