A good exam le
of u ' ~ . .
Asse b] p q eer theOry 3 ambivalence about itself is lasbir K. Puar‘s inﬂuential 2007 book Terrorist
m a 63. Pua ' . .
g I does battle With a successron 0f polemical opponents: queer liberalism, queer neoliberalism,
queer exce ti ' . . . . ,,
p OUHhSIn, etc. If all of one s 1dent1t1es must be constantly troubled," she points out, one imagines "an

1mpOss1ble transcendent subject who is always already conscious of the normativizing forces of power and always
ready and able to subvert, resist, or transgress them." That seems undeniable as far as it goes. but it also restates one
of the generative problems in Butler's early work. So while Puar seems to want to associate queer theory with a
liberal imperial imagination, she does so in terms that she takes from queer theory itself. Despite its criticisms of
(some) queer theory, then, Puar's book is itself an example of the kind of Vital work that queer theory enables, with

or without the rubric. TerrorisrAssembIages would very likely sit on any queer—theory syllabus today.

Queer theory in this broader sense now has so many branches, and has developed in so many disciplines, that it
resists synthesis. The differences have often enough become bitter, sometimes occasioning the kind of queerer-
than-thou competitiveness that is the telltale sign of scarcity in resources and recognition. That impulse can be
seen, for example, in the title of a special issue of Social Text called "What's Queer About Queer Studies Now?" And
given queer theory‘s strong suspicion of any politics of purity, it is ironic that queer theorists can often strike
postures of righteous purity in denouncing one another. The Gay Shame Conference at the University of Michigan
at Ann Arbor in 2003, for instance—to discuss aspects of lesbian and gay male sexuality, history, and culture that

"gay pride" had suppressed—featured a remarkable amount of mutual shaming, as though everyone had missed

the point.

The scarcity of resources that feeds such a dynamic has a lot to do with university structure. At many colleges, queer
theory is now institutionalized as a minor subﬁeld of LGBT studies. Some projects, such as queer ethnography,
ﬂourish in this structure better than others. The broader provocation to the disciplines has been neatly
compartmentalized, with the consequence that many of queer theory's greatest challenges—for example, in the
analysis of normativity, which should have become central to philosophy and the social sciences, but has been
scrupulously ignored by them, or the connections between sexuality and secularism that are central to so many
kinds of conﬂict around the world—remain undeveloped. Thus to my mind, the widespread impression that queer

theory is a thing of the past, that we are now at some point "After Sex, " seems tragically mistaken.

At its best, queer theory has always also been something else—something that will be left out of any purely
intellectual history of the movement. Like "I want a dyke for president," it has created a kind of social space. Queer
people of various kinds, both inside and outside academe, continue to ﬁnd their way to it, and ﬁnd each other

through it. In varying degrees, they share in it as a counterpublic. In this far-too-limited zone, it has been possible to

 

mm A “wand imqninaﬁnn nf cmnmlitv that is otherwise closed down by the dominant direction of gay and