Eve Sedgwick accomplished something similar in her early work. Her 1985 book Between Men was a watersnea, mr
me at least. Published just when I was completing graduate school, it approached homophobiaﬂthe organizing
problematic of lesbian and gay studies—as a constitutive byproduct of modern styles of straight—male
homosociality. Sedgwick was envisioning a way for gay studies and feminism to ﬁnd a common peISpectiVe 011
straightness, masculinity, and the dynamics of domination in modern culture. Like Foucault's, her analysis ﬂipped
the lens: The real problem, for her, was the meChanism of male sociability that, in envisioning the domination of

women, made its own homoerotic dimensions abject, projecting the homosexual as a failed but dangerous and
repudiated version of itself.

‘In that turn, Sedgwick was already beginning to imagine what she

would boldly declare in the ﬁrst paragraph of her 1990 Epistemology 0f the C105et: "An understanding of virtually
any aspect of modern Western culture must be, not merely incomplete, but damaged in its central substance to the
degree that it does not incorporate a critical analysis of modern homo/ heterosexual deﬁnition." If anything,
subsequent queer theory has tended to argue an even stronger version of that claim, suggesting that the normative
ﬁeld of sexuality is so dispersed that it requires us to understand such things as racialization, the dynamic between

developed countries and colonies or postcolonies, the stabilization of sex biomorphism, and so on.

Those last questions had also been raised by Judith Butler before they had come to be called queer theory. Butler's
1990 Gender T roubIe, in addition to its well-known (but still widely misunderstood) arguments about
performativity of gender, had its deepest impact through the same kind of shift in perspective. Instead of starting
with the nature of sex, she urged us to analyze the normative frameworks by which gender and sexuality are
constituted and inhabited in the ﬁrst place. Fusing insights from phenomenology and Pierre Bourdieu's practice
theory together with a long history of feminist thought, Butler foregrounded a problem that has still not been fully
grasped in most philosophy or the social sciences. Where most accounts of norms imagine an agent who acts on the
basis of beliefs or desires and reﬂects on what ought to be done, Butler called attention to the ways we ﬁnd
ourselves already normatively organized as certain kinds of agents, for example by having gender in ways that must
be intelligible to others. The problem, she said, was the "regulatory ﬁction of heterosexual coherence," which

"disguises itself as a developmental law regulating the sexual ﬁeld that it purports to describe."

That approach immediately opened up new problems, occasioning, for example, a debate about "antinormativity"

within queer theory. (Does the embrace of queerness entail a romantic oppositionto all normativity whatsoever? ls

 

there something inherently antisocial in the experience of sexuality?) But it also gave a vocabulary for a kind of