mwwm mm wow; u ltl<“l‘il“_l\_,’ core; an oddly melancholy utopianism; a speculative and prophetic stance uuwmL

polities not to mention an ability to do much of that—through the play ofits own style-

Almost 20 years later, the resonance with the Occupy Wall Street movement is unmistakable. Like Occupy Wall
Street, queer theory worked by magnetizing attention, at the right moment, to problems that existed before it, and
which it could not ﬁx. Like OWS, it maintained a skeptical distance from legitimate political processes in order to
cast light on their distortions. Like OWS. its moment in the spotlight was only a strobelike illumination of a lingering

state of affairs, in which a lot of people felt that we would all be happier keeping that damn light off, thank you very
much.

  

From the moment of the ﬁrst reports of queer politics and queer theory, many gay men and lesbians hated the idea.

For using the term positively, I was denounced by The New York Native as "the gay Lyndon LaRouche." Lo these
many years later, straight and gay people alike continue to deride queer theory as the ultimate joke ofa debased and
fraudulent academy. The playwright Larry Kramer, without showing much sign of understanding queer theory,
nevertheless bewails that "gay people are the victims of an enormous con job, a tragic heist." In his View, people
throughout history have been gay in exactly the way we understand the term today. and the purpose of gay studies

should be to celebrate them. Queer theory's attention to the historical variety and complexity of sexual cultures is,
for Kramer, a betrayal of gay people and common sense alike.

One thing that language registers is that queer theory opened up a conceptual divergence from lesbian and gay
studies (ironically at a time when that ﬁeld was just coming into its own), as well as a political divergence from the

lesbian and gay movement (which also burst into mainstream politics with the 1992 presidential campaign of Bill
Clinton).

The intellectual part of queer theory had in fact begun long before, at least with Foucault's History of Sexuality (ﬁrst
published in French in 1976). Foucault's book was clearly unassimilable to movement politics. Early debates about
it within gay studies focused on its critique of psychoanalysis and its turn to a constructionist account of gay
identity. Foucault's remark that "the nineteenth-century homosexual became a personage" became the most
famous phrase in the book. But the bigger challenge, one that took longer to digest, was the way Foucault had
ﬂipped the lens on the whole project of studying sexuality. Instead of starting with sexual identities, he wanted to

think about the prior structuring of sexuality by several techniques distin. 've to modern societies He drew
attention to the way sexuality is stabilized for us by secular expert ‘

genres of therapy and self—representation. In his account, sexu

  
  
  
  

ored in individuals both by

d, of regulation, therapy,

and liberation simultaneously. He opened new questions ab a knowled f
, , ge o

 

sexuality and various forms of what he called "state racis u - »~

 

. . ‘ ‘ , ' are forms,
genoc1de and eugenlcs: the Drocess hv whirh rhp rnfnn -